---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# IR example

The main feature of the embeddings is that the cosine similarity between two embeddings captures the semantic relatedness of the corresponding original passages. This allows us to use the embeddings to do semantic retrieval / search.

Suppose the user sends a "query" (e.g., a question or a comment) to the chatbot:

```python "
query = "When is Apple's conference call scheduled?"
```

To find out the document that is most similar to the query among the existing data, we can first embed/vectorize the query:

```python "
# Get the embedding of the query
query_embedding = get_embedding(query, model="voyage-01")
```

Nearest neighbor Search: We can find a few closest embeddings in the documents embeddings based on the cosine similarity, and retrieve the corresponding document using the nearest_neighbors function.

```python "
# Use the nearest neighbor algorithm to find the document with the highest similarity
retrieved_embd, retrieved_embd_index = k_nearest_neighbors(query_embedding, documents_embeddings, k=1)
retrieved_doc = [documents[index] for index in retrieved_embd_index]

print(retrieved_doc)
```

Output:
```python "
"Apple’s conference call to discuss fourth fiscal quarter results and business updates is scheduled for Thursday, November 2, 2023 at 2:00 p.m. PT / 5:00 p.m. ET."
```

k-nearest neighbors Search (k-NN): It is often useful to retrieve not only the closest document but also the most k closest documents. The k_nearest_neighbors algorithm enables us to achieve this. It is important to note that nearest_neighbors is special case of k_nearest_neighbors when k=1.

```python "
# Use the k-nearest neighbor algorithm to identify the top-k documents with the highest similarity
retrieved_embds, retrieved_embd_indices = k_nearest_neighbors(query_embedding, documents_embeddings, k=3)
retrieved_docs = [documents[index] for index in retrieved_embd_indices]
```

## Vector Database

Vector Database is a specialized database or data platform designed to cater to the unique needs of applications and industries that rely heavily on vector-based data. This database is engineered to efficiently store, manage, and retrieve vector data, which can include a wide range of information such as spatial data, molecular sequences, time-series data, and more. VectorDB offers a robust set of tools and features tailored to support the indexing, querying, and analysis of vector data, making it a valuable resource for researchers, data scientists, and businesses working with complex datasets that exhibit vector-like characteristics.