---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Quickstart
## Installation
To install LangChain run via pip:
```bash "
pip install langchain
```

To install LangChain run via conda:
```bash "
conda install langchain -c conda-forge
```

## Environment Setup
Using LangChain will usually require integrations with one or more model providers, data stores, APIs, etc. For this example, we'll use OpenAI's model APIs.

First we'll need to install their Python package:

```bash "
pip install openai
```

Accessing the API requires an API key, which you can get by creating an account and heading here. Once we have a key we'll want to set it as an environment variable by running:

```bash "
export OPENAI_API_KEY="..."
```

If you'd prefer not to set an environment variable you can pass the key in directly via the openai_api_key named parameter when initiating the OpenAI LLM class:

```bash "
from langchain.llms import OpenAI
llm = OpenAI(openai_api_key="...")
```

## Building an application

Now we can start building our language model application. LangChain provides many modules that can be used to build language model applications. Modules can be used as stand-alones in simple applications and they can be combined for more complex use cases.

The most common and most important chain that LangChain helps create contains three things:

* LLM: The language model is the core reasoning engine here. In order to work with LangChain, you need to understand the different types of language models and how to work with them.

* Prompt Templates: This provides instructions to the language model. This controls what the language model outputs, so understanding how to construct prompts and different prompting strategies is crucial.

* Output Parsers: These translate the raw response from the LLM to a more workable format, making it easy to use the output downstream.

In this getting started guide we will cover those three components by themselves, and then go over how to combine all of them. Understanding these concepts will set you up well for being able to use and customize LangChain applications. Most LangChain applications allow you to configure the LLM and/or the prompt used, so knowing how to take advantage of this will be a big enabler.

### LLM
### Prompt Templates
### Output Parsers